Add brute-force exploiters' explanation pages (#4269)
guardicore/monkey: docs/content/features/exploiters/mssql.md

---
title: "MSSQL Exploiter"
draft: false
description: "Exploits MSSQL by taking advantage of insecure configuration"
tags: ["exploiter", "mssql", "brute force"]
pre: "<i class='fa fa-database'></i> "
---

## MSSQL

[MSSQL (Microsoft SQL Server)](
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/sql-server/what-is-sql-server) is a
relational database management system (RDBMS) developed by Microsoft whose
functions include managing, storing, retrieving, manipulating, and analyzing
data efficiently.

[`xp_cmdshell`](
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/system-stored-procedures/xp-cmdshell-transact-sql)
is a procedure in MSSQL that allows users to execute Windows shell commands
from within the SQL Server environment.

## Exploitation

> Machines with MSSQL that have `xp_cmdshell` enabled may be accessible to
> attackers if they come across the correct credentials.

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
Machines with MSSQL that have `xp_cmdshell` enabled may be accessible to
attackers if they are able to successfully authenticate with the service.
```

?

Author: If they're able to successfully authenticate, the machine ~may~ will be accessible. Seems kind of unnecessary to mention it. Between these two, I prefer the former.  What about it do you not like?

Author: How about this?
```suggestion
Machines with MSSQL that have `xp_cmdshell` enabled may be accessible to
attackers if they find a way to authenticate with the service.
```

Reviewer: It makes it sound so haphazard. We could just say "if they are able to authenticate with the service."

Author: "if they are able to authenticate with the service" suggests they have the right credentials + `xp_cmdshell` was enabled, it feels wrong to say "_may_ be accessible" with that. I'm having trouble thinking of a better sentence.

Infection Monkey's MSSQL exploiter uses brute-force to propagate to a victim
by taking advantage of insecure MSSQL configuration. It leverages the

> `xp_cmdshell` feature to execute commands on the server.

Reviewer: I feel like these two paragraphs are basically building up to say the same thing. Maybe they can be combined.

Author: I'd prefer keeping them separate. This is how it is in all the exploiter pages. The first paragraph says something about the service's vulnerability and the second explains how it works in Infection Monkey.

Reviewer: Maybe, but most of them aren't paragraphs, they're standalone sentences.

Author: Combining them in all pages

![MSSQL Configuration](
/images/island/configuration-page/mssql-exploiter-configuration.png
"MSSQL Configuration")

### Credentials used

The MSSQL exploiter will use [user-configured credentials](
/usage/configuration/credentials) as well as credentials collected from other
victims for brute-forcing. All possible combinations of usernames and passwords
are used, prioritizing pairs provided by the user in the configuration.

## Mitigation

> 1. Disable the `xp_cmdshell` option.

Reviewer: It feels weird to have a numbered list with only one item.
